# DDoS/DoS Attacks

This type of attack is when an attacker exhausts the network by flooding the device with traffic. This can be achieved by compromising a large number of computers forming a botnet and control them to flood the network with requests (DDoS) or to just use one computer for the same effect (DoS).
To test against this type of attack usually it is needed to simulate the attack in order to observe if the system under test can eradicate the threat or if it is susceptible to it.

Bellow some tools to test against this type of attack will be presented with instructions to do so. If the system is not secured against this type of attacks the tools will succeed in penetrating the system.


## hping3

hping is a TCP/IP packet assembler/analyzer with a command-line interface. The gui is based on the unix command ping(8), but hping can do more than just submit ICMP echo requests. It has a traceroute mode, the ability to send files between covered channels, and many other features. It supports TCP, UDP, ICMP, and RAW-IP protocols.

To test against DoS with this tool it needs to be installed first using the following command:
 ``` bash 
    apt install hping3 -y
 ```

 After the installation the user can launch an attack by typing, for example:

 ``` bash
    sudo hping3 -S --flood -V -p <PortNo> <IP>
 ```

## HULK

HULK is a DoS tool that generates unique and obfuscated traffic volumes. With this tool it is possible to flood the system with traffic causing a denial of service. 


Firstly it is needed to install this tool by downloading the following Git-Hub repository: https://github.com/grafov/hulk/archive/master.zip

Then the user sould input the following on the terminal:

``` bash
   unzip hulk-master.zip
   sudo python hulk.py http://<IP>:<PortNo>/
```

## GoldenEye

GoldenEye is a HTTP Denial Of Service Tool. It uses KeepAlive paired with Cache-Control options to persist socket connection busting until it consumes all available sockets on the HTTP/S server.This tool can be used for **Load Testing** and testing of Network devices.

To install this tool the user needs to download it from the original Git-Hub repository: https://github.com/jseidl/GoldenEye, followed by unpacking the tool with the command:

``` bash
   unzip GoldenEye-master.zip
```

To see all the options this tool offers the user can type:

``` bash
   sudo ./goldeneye.py -h
```

A simple test with this tool is as follows:


``` bash
   ./goldeneye.py <url>
```


## Wireshark

Wireshark is one of the most used network protocol analyzer with this tool it is possible to observe the the traffic generated by the testing done with the tools mentioned above. This tool is only available to Windows and MacOS.

To install this tool the user only need to access https://www.wireshark.org/ and click the link to download and install de system.

